Created a new dark mode document (#6776)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dark-mode.md

---
title: "dbt Cloud dark mode"
id: dark-mode
description: "About dbt Cloud dark mode"
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud dark mode
---

dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (automatic theme switching based on your browser’s preferences set) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.

Your selected theme is stored in your user profile, ensuring a consistent experience across dbt Cloud.

> Theme selection applies across all areas of dbt Cloud, including the [IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud), [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), [environments](/docs/environments-in-dbt), [jobs](/docs/deploy/jobs), and more. Learn more about customizing themes in [Enable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI](add link)

Author: ```suggestion
Theme selection applies across all areas of dbt Cloud, including the [IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud), [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), [environments](/docs/environments-in-dbt), [jobs](/docs/deploy/jobs), and more. Learn more about customizing themes in [Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dark-mode#enable-dark-mode-in-dbt-cloud).
```

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account. If you don’t, try [dbt Cloud for free!](https://www.getdbt.com/signup)
- Dark mode is currently available on the Developer plan. It will be available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. We’ll be rolling it out gradually, so stay tuned for updates.

## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud

To switch to dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.
2. Under **Theme**, select **Dark**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png" width="70%" title="Enable dark mode" />

And that’s it! 🎉 Your chosen selected theme will follow you across all devices.

> ## Disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI

Author: ```suggestion
## Disable dark mode in dbt Cloud
```

To disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the three dots at the bottom right of the IDE.
2. Select **Switch to light mode** from the menu.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/theme-selection-in-the-ide.png" width="90%" title="Enable light mode" />

> ### Dark mode setting in the IDE

Author: ```suggestion
### Legacy Dark Mode
```

> The 'Switch to Dark Mode' menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Switch to Dark Mode** menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.
```

---

> title: "dbt Cloud dark mode"

Reviewer: My suggestion would be to make this page light/dark agnostic. 

Something like "Change your dbt Cloud Theme" or similar. @runleonarun and @mirnawong1 what are your thoughts here

Reviewer 2: i think that's a good shout @matthewshaver

> title: "dbt Cloud dark mode"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Change your dbt Cloud Theme"
```

id: dark-mode
description: "Learn about theme switching in dbt Cloud"
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud dark mode
image: /img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png
---

> dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (this respects your browser's theme for light or dark mode) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (respects your browser's theme for light or dark mode) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.
```

> dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (automatic theme switching based on your browser’s preferences set) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (this respects your browser's theme for light or dark mode) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.
```

Your selected theme is stored in your user profile, ensuring a consistent experience across dbt Cloud.

Theme selection applies across all areas of dbt Cloud, including the [IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud), [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), [environments](/docs/environments-in-dbt), [jobs](/docs/deploy/jobs), and more. Learn more about customizing themes in [Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dark-mode#enable-dark-mode-in-dbt-cloud).

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account. If you don’t, try [dbt Cloud for free!](https://www.getdbt.com/signup)

> - Dark mode is currently available on the Developer plan. It will be available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. We’ll be rolling it out gradually, so stay tuned for updates.

Reviewer 2: sugg consolidating (non blocker)
```suggestion
- Dark mode is currently available on the Developer plan and will gradually be made available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. Stay tuned for updates.
```

> ## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this entire section should just be labeled something like "Change themes in dbt Cloud". The page is already titled dark mode so I think it's ok to not reference dark mode directly.

Then both the enabled and disabled paragraphs really are combined, to enable dark mode, the user can just select it, and disabling is the opposite process. It feels strange to callout the IDE mechanism in the paragraph below "Disable dark mode".

Additionally, we could add a sentence explaining that "System" will respect browser theme for light or dark.

> ## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
## Change themes in dbt Cloud
```

To switch to dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.
2. Under **Theme**, select **Dark**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png" width="70%" title="Enable dark mode" />

And that’s it! 🎉 Your chosen selected theme will follow you across all devices.

## Disable dark mode in dbt Cloud

To disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the three dots at the bottom right of the IDE.
2. Select **Switch to light mode** from the menu.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/theme-selection-in-the-ide.png" width="90%" title="Enable light mode" />

> ### Legacy Dark Mode

Author: ```suggestion
### Legacy dark mode
```

> ### Legacy dark mode

Reviewer 2: any reason why this isn't an h2?
```suggestion
## Legacy dark mode
```

> The **Switch to Dark Mode** menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Switch to Dark Mode** menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users who have access to the IDE will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.
```

> The **Switch to Dark Mode** menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users who have access to the IDE will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Switch to dark mode** menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users who have access to the IDE will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.
```

## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud

To switch to dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.
2. Under **Theme**, select **Dark**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png" width="70%" title="Enable dark mode" />

And that’s it! 🎉 Your chosen selected theme will follow you across all devices.

## Disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI

To disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the three dots at the bottom right of the IDE.
2. Select **Switch to light mode** from the menu.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/theme-selection-in-the-ide.png" width="90%" title="Enable light mode" />

### Dark mode setting in the IDE

The 'Switch to Dark Mode' menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

> :::

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud

To switch to dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.
2. Under **Theme**, select **Dark**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png" width="70%" title="Enable dark mode" />

And that’s it! 🎉 Your chosen selected theme will follow you across all devices.

## Disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI

To disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the three dots at the bottom right of the IDE.
2. Select **Switch to light mode** from the menu.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/theme-selection-in-the-ide.png" width="90%" title="Enable light mode" />

### Dark mode setting in the IDE

The 'Switch to Dark Mode' menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

> :::info Rollout of **Dark mode**

Author: ```suggestion

```

---

> title: "dbt Cloud UI dark mode"

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to say "UI" here.
```suggestion
title: "dbt Cloud dark mode"
```

id: dark-mode

> description: "About dbt Cloud UI dark mode"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: "About dbt Cloud dark mode"
```

> description: "About dbt Cloud UI dark mode"

Reviewer 2: non blocker but any chance we can have a more descriptive description?

> sidebar_label: dbt Cloud UI dark mode

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud dark mode
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: non blocker but i think it'd be super nice to add an image to the frontmatter (the trick i shared at our offsite) so users see dark mode visually when the url unfurls!

> dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (automatic theme switching based on your browser’s preferences set) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.

Reviewer 3: We migth want to mention which is default?

Reviewer 3: Oops it's there!

> dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (automatic theme switching based on your browser’s preferences set) under the **Themes** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud supports **Light mode** (default), **Dark mode**, and **System mode** (automatic theme switching based on your browser’s preferences set) under the **Theme** section of your user profile. You can seamlessly switch between these modes directly from the profile menu, customizing your viewing experience.
```

Your selected theme is stored in your user profile, ensuring a consistent experience across dbt Cloud.

> Theme selection applies across all areas of dbt Cloud, including the [IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud), [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), [environments](/docs/environments-in-dbt), [jobs](/docs/deploy/jobs), and more. Learn more about customizing themes in [Enable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI](add link)

Reviewer 3: Missing link here

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account. If you don’t, try [dbt Cloud for free!](https://www.getdbt.com/signup)

> - Access to dbt Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
- Dark mode is currently available on the Developer plan. It will be available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. We’ll be rolling it out gradually, so stay tuned for updates.
```

> - Access to dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 3: What do we mean by "access" here? How is it different from having a cloud account and can they be combined?

SHould we say which plan you need? Does it work for developer, enterprise and team accounts?

> ## Enable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI

Author: ```suggestion
## Enable dark mode in dbt Cloud
```

To switch to dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.
2. Under **Theme**, select **Dark**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/dark-mode.png" width="70%" title="Enable dark mode" />

And that’s it! 🎉 Your chosen selected theme will follow you across all devices.

> ## Disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI

Reviewer 2: would users also be able to disable by clicking on their profile icon? what if they don't have access to the ide? (maybe read only users can't enable/disable dark mode?)

Author: Querying here: https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C049RJJ25KJ/p1737023165484869

To disable dark mode in the dbt Cloud UI, follow these steps:

> 1. Navigate to your account name at the bottom left of your account.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the three dots at the bottom right of the IDE.
```

> 2. Under **Theme**, select **Light**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Select "Switch to Light mode" from the menu.
```

> 2. Select "Switch to Light mode" from the menu.

Reviewer 2: bolding since it's a ui element mentioned in our [style guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#ui-elements)

```suggestion
2. Select **Switch to light mode** from the menu.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/theme-selection-in-the-ide.png" width="90%" title="Enable light mode" />

> ### Dark mode setting in the IDE

Reviewer 3: SHould we call this "Legacy dark mode in IDE" or something shorter and where we call out it's legacy?

> The 'Switch to Dark Mode' menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch across to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The 'Switch to Dark Mode' menu item in the IDE will soon be deprecated. All users will default to **Light mode** upon signing in, but can easily switch to **Dark mode** from the user menu in the navigation. Once you switch to your new theme, it will apply to all of your devices.
```

:::info Rollout of **Dark mode**

> Dark mode will be available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. We’ll be rolling it out gradually, so stay tuned for updates.

Reviewer 3: Maybe this can be move to the prerequisites section?

> Dark mode will be available for all [plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) in the future. We’ll be rolling it out gradually, so stay tuned for updates.

Author: ```suggestion

```
